in this video we'll talk about how to
fit the parameters theta for logistic
regression in particular I'd like to
define the optimization objective of the
cost function that we'll use to fit the
parameters use the supervised learning
problem of fitting a logistic regression
model we have a training set of M
training examples and as usual each of
our examples is represented via a
feature vector there's a n plus 1
dimensional and as usual we have X 0
equals 1 the first feature or a 0
feature is always equal to 1 and because
this is a classification problem our
training set has the property that every
label Y is either 0 1 this is a
hypothesis and the parameters of the
hypothesis is this theta over here and
the question I want to talk about is
given this training set how do we choose
or how do we fit the parameters theta
back when we were developing the linear
regression model we use the following
cost function I've written just slightly
differently where instead of 1 over 2m
I've taken the 1/2 and put it inside the
summation instead now I want to use an
alternative way of writing out this cost
function which is that instead of
writing out the squared error term here
let's write in here
cost of H of X comma Y and I'm going to
define that term cost a vege of X comma
Y to be equal to this it's just equal to
this 1/2 of the squared error so now we
can see more clearly that the cost
function is a sum over my training set
or as 1 over m times the sum over my
training set of this cost term here and
to simplify this equation a little bit
more it's going to be convenient to get
rid of those super scripts so just
define cost of H of X comma Y to be
equal to 1/2 of the squared error and
the interpretation of this cost function
is that this is the cost
I want my learning over
them too you know how to pay if it
outputs that value it is prediction is H
of X and the actual label was y so just
cross off those superscripts right and
no suprise for linear regression the
cost we've defined is that what the cost
for this is that is one-half times the
squared difference between what are
predicted and the actual value that we
observe for Y now this cost function
worked fine for linear regression but
here we're interested in logistic
regression if we could minimize this
cost function that is plugged into J
here that will work okay but it turns
out that if we use this particular cost
function this would be a non convex
function of the parameters theta here's
what I mean by non convex we have some
cost function J of theta and for
logistic regression this function egg
here has a non linearity right it's in
your 1 over 1 plus e to the negative
theta transpose X so this is a pretty
complicated nonlinear function and if
you take the sigmoid function and plug
it in here
and then take this cost function and
plug it in there and then plot what J of
theta looks like you find that J of
theta can look like the function that's
like this you know with many local
optima and the formal term for this is
that this is a non convex function and
you can kind of tell if you were to run
gradient descent on disorder function it
is not guaranteed to converge to the
global minimum whereas in contrast what
we would like is to have a cost function
J of theta that is convex that is a
single bone shape function that looks
like this so that if you run gradient
descent we would be guaranteed that
gradient descent you know would converge
to the global minimum and the problem
we're using the square cost function is
that because of this very nonlinear
sigmoid function that appears in the
middle here J of theta ends up being a
non convex function if you were to
define it as the square cost function so
what we'd like to do is to instead come
up with a different cost function that
is convex
and so that we can apply a great
algorithm like gradient descent and be
guaranteed they'll find the global
minimum here's the cost function that
we're going to use for logistic
regression we're going to say that the
cost or the penalty that the algorithm
pays if it outputs the value H of X so
this is some number like zero point
seven right but if it predicts the value
H of X and the actual cost label turns
out to be Y the cost is going to be
minus log H of X if Y is equal to 1 and
minus log 1 minus H of X if Y is equal
to zero this looks like a pretty
complicated function but let's plot this
function to gain some intuition about
what is doing let's start off with the
case of y equals 1 if y is equal to 1
then the cost function is minus log H of
X and then we plot that so let's say
that the horizontal axis is H of X so we
know that our hypothesis is going to
output a value between 0 and 1 right so
H of X that varies between 0 and 1
if you plot what this cost function
looks like you find that it looks like
this one way to see why the plot looks
like this is because um if you were to
plot log Z with Z on the horizontal axis
then that looks like that and it sort of
approaches minus infinity right so this
is what the log function looks like and
this is 0 this is 1 here Z is of course
playing the row of H of X and so minus
log Z will look like this
by just flipping the sign minus log Z
and we're interested only in the range
of when this function goes between 0 and
1 so get rid of that and so we're just
left with you know this part of the
curve and that's what this curve oh no
that looks like now this cost function
has a few interesting and desirable
properties first you notice that if Y is
equal to 1 and H of X is equal to 1 in
other words if the hypothesis exactly
you know
x equals one and y is exactly equal to
what I predicted then the cost is equal
to 0 right that corresponds to the curve
doesn't actually flatten out the curve
is still going first notice that if H of
x equals 1 if the hypothesis predicts
that y is equal to 1 and if in dy is
equal to 1 then the cost is equal to 0
that corresponds to this point down here
right if H of X is equal to 1 and we're
only considering the case at y equals 1
here but if H of X is equal to 1 then
the cost is down here is equal to 0 and
that's that that's what we'd like it to
be because you know if we correctly
predict the output Y then the cost 0 but
now notice also that as H of X
approaches 0 so as H is the output of a
hypothesis approaches 0 the cost blows
up and it goes to infinity and what this
does is this captures the intuition that
if our hypothesis you know outputs 0 the
side saying our hypothesis is saying the
chance of y equals 1 is equal to 0 it's
kind of like our going to our medical
patients and saying the probability that
you have a malignant tumor the property
that y equals 1 is 0 so it's like
absolutely impossible that your
malignant that you're a tumor is
malignant but if it turns out that the
tumor the patient's tumor actually is
malignant so if Y is equal to 1
even after we told them you know the
probability of it happening is zeros
it's absolutely impossible for it to
them to be malignant but we told them
this with that level of certainty and we
turn out to be wrong then we penalize
the learning algorithm by very very
large cost and that's captured by having
this cost go to infinity if y equals 1
and H of X approaches 0 this slide
considered the case of y equals 1 let's
look at what the cost function looks
like for y equals 0 if Y is equal to 0
then the cost looks like this it looks
like this expression over here and if
you plot the function minus log 1 minus
Z it what you get is the cost function
actually looks like
so it goes from zero to one unlike that
and so if you plot the cost function for
the case of y equals zero
you find it it looks like this and what
this curve does is it now blows up it
goes to plus infinity as H of X goes to
one because on the saying that if Y
turns out to be equal to zero but we
predicted that you know Y is equal to
one with with almost certainty we're
probably 1 then we end up paying a very
large cost let's plot the cost function
for the case of y equals 0 so if y
equals 0 that's going to be our cost
function if you are look at this
expression and if you plot your minus
log 1 minus Z if you figure out what
that looks like you get a figure that
looks like this where which goes from 0
to 1 with the z axis on the horizontal
axis so if you take this cost function
and plot it for the case of y equals 0
what you get is that the cost function
looks like this and what this cost
function does is that it blows up or it
goes to a positive infinity as H of X
goes to 1 and this captures the
intuition that if a hypothesis predicted
that you know H of X is equal to 1 with
certainty with like probably one is
absolutely going to be y equals 1 but if
Y turns out to be equal to 0 then it
makes sense to make the hypothesis and
make the learning algorithm pay a very
large cost and conversely if H of X is
equal to 0 and y equals 0 then the
hypothesis nailed it predicted Y is
equal to 0 and it turns out Y is equal
to 0 so at this point the cost function
is going to be 0
in this video we've defined the cost
function for a single training example
the topic of convexity analysis is
beyond the scope of this course but it
is possible to show that with our
particular choice of cost function this
will give us a convex optimization
problem since our cost function our
overall cost function J of theta will be
convex and local Optima free in the next
video we're going to take these ideas of
the cost function for a single training
example and develop that further and
define the cost function for the entire
training set and we'll also figure out a
simpler way to write it than we have
been using so far and based on that
we'll work out gradient descent and that
would give us our logistic regression
algorithm